#summary The Plan for Fox Dash 2.

= Introduction =
Below should summarize the plan of attack for Fox Dash 2. Including important dates, goals, and any other details.

= Description =
Fox Dash 2 is much like Fox Dash which is much like Canabalt. A continuous running game where the player must jump to avoid hitting obstacles and thus starting over.

== Mechanics ==
The screen will scroll from ~left to right~ right to left depending on the orientation of the device. The fox will run continuously and jump when a finger touches the screen.

== Bad Guys ==
  * Black smoke (give it a name?)
  * Bad pickups that slow you down
  * Pits/jumps
== Good Guys ==
Level ups
  * stars much like the first game
  * additional pickups that make you go faster

= Details =

Specific details about Fox Dash 2.

== New ==
Fox Dash 2 is running on OpenGL 2.0ES rather than canvas as the first Fox Dash did.

== Goals ==
Personal goals for Fox Dash 2 include
  * Updated Graphics
  * New Music and More Sounds
  * In-Depth Story
  * More Efficient Code
  * Tablet support
  
== Ideas ==
Some neat ideas that Fox Dash 2 could have
  * Multiplayer
  * Visual Effects (Think lights/particles/etc)
  * Constructive/destructive environments
  * Tutorial?

== Schedule ==
May 29 2012 (day 1) 
  * Prepare Google Code
  * Upload first chunk of code
  * Detail plan

July 23 2012
  * Base of engine complete

Sept 24 2012
  * Reorganize and re-evaluate goals
  * Story completed 
  * Created Trello for the rest of development cycle.

== Engine ==
The Engine will be broken down into X number of Parts.


*Audio*
  * Holds audio properties (length/speed/volume)
  * Contains state (playing/paused/etc)

*Setup/Activity*
  * Handles loading of the game from cold boot
  * Closing the game
  * Minimizing the game, including saving states
  * Reopening the game (warm boot)
  * Setting/preparing/handling pause states (incoming call for example)

*Input*
  * Manages button presses
  * Including volume/home/etc keys

*Level*
  * Manages levels
  * Manages level objects and lights and sounds

*Loader*
  * Loads in all assets
  * Stores all assets properly
  * Destroys assets appropriately
  * Handles reading in strings as well
  * Contains file loading and IO through XML

*Math/Helper*
  * Contains useful methods (linear interpolate)
  * Stores static variables (screen orientation/DPI)
  * FPS Manager is here too (since it is 99% math)
  * Physics are part of this

*Message*
  * Contains the Toast Manager
  * Contains the Dialog Manager

*OpenGL*
  * Contains the Game (onUpdate, onDraw)
  * Contains the renderer

*OpenGL Drawable*
  * Things that can be drawn by Open GL
  * Text, Quads (sprites), Particles, etc

*OpenGL Graphics*
  * Contains classes that visually effect Drawables
  * Lights

*Networking(optional?)*
  * Manages connection to network/servers
  * Handles sending and receiving of data

*AD Manager*
  * JUST KIDDING
  * Fox Dash will NEVER have ads! :)

== Code Practices == 
Variables will be all lower-case words separated by underscores.
{{{
int my_int;
}}}
Methods first word lower-case, all other words camel-case
{{{
void onUpdate();
}}}
Files /should/ be all camel-case.
{{{
MyFile.png
}}}
  * Everything else is fairgame. 
  * It is a wacky system, but it is better than nothing.

== Credits ==
List of people who directly contributed to Fox Dash 2.